README.md, before:

<!--
 * @Author: Conghao Wong
 * @Date: 2022-07-07 21:43:30
 * @LastEditors: Conghao Wong
 * @LastEditTime: 2023-03-28 16:51:14
 * @Description: file content
 * @Github: https://github.com/cocoon2wong
 * Copyright 2022 Conghao Wong, All Rights Reserved.
-->

# Project-Jocker

## Branch `BB` Notes ⚠️

Please note that the contents in this branch are still under development and are not the final version.

![BB](./figures/bb.jpeg)

## Contact us

Conghao Wong ([@cocoon2wong](https://github.com/cocoon2wong)): conghaowong@icloud.com  
Beihao Xia ([@NorthOcean](https://github.com/NorthOcean)): xbh_hust@hust.edu.cn

---

## Args Used

Please specify your customized args when training or testing your model in the following way:

```bash
python main.py --ARG_KEY1 ARG_VALUE2 --ARG_KEY2 ARG_VALUE2 -SHORT_ARG_KEY3 ARG_VALUE3 ...
```

where `ARG_KEY` is the name of args, and `ARG_VALUE` is the corresponding value.
All args and their usages are listed below.

About the `argtype`:

- Args with argtype=`static` can not be changed once after training.
  When testing the model, the program will not parse these args to overwrite the saved values.
- Args with argtype=`dynamic` can be changed anytime.
  The program will try to first parse inputs from the terminal and then try to load from the saved JSON file.
- Args with argtype=`temporary` will not be saved into JSON files.
  The program will parse these args from the terminal at each time.

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS LINE -->
### Basic args

- `--K_train`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of multiple generations when training. This arg only works for multiple-generation models. 
  The default value is `10`.
- `--K`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Number of multiple generations when testing. This arg only works for multiple-generation models. 
  The default value is `20`.
- `--anntype`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Model's predicted annotation type. Can be `'coordinate'` or `'boundingbox'`. 
  The default value is `coordinate`.
- `--batch_size` (short for `-bs`): type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Batch size when implementation. 
  The default value is `5000`.
- `--dataset`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Name of the video dataset to train or evaluate. For example, `'ETH-UCY'` or `'SDD'`. NOTE: DO NOT set this argument manually. 
  The default value is `Unavailable`.
- `--draw_distribution` (short for `-dd`): type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls if draw distributions of predictions instead of points. If `draw_distribution == 0`, it will draw results as normal coordinates; If `draw_distribution == 1`, it will draw all results in the distribution way, and points from different time steps will be drawn with different colors. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--draw_exclude_type` (short for `-det`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Draw visualized results of agents except user-assigned types. If the assigned types are `"Biker_Cart"` and the `draw_results` or `draw_videos` is not `"null"`, it will draw results of all types of agents except "Biker" and "Cart". It supports partial match and it is case-sensitive. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--draw_index`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Indexes of test agents to visualize. Numbers are split with `_`. For example, `'123_456_789'`. 
  The default value is `all`.
- `--draw_results` (short for `-dr`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls whether to draw visualized results on video frames. Accept the name of one video clip. The codes will first try to load the video file according to the path saved in the `plist` file (saved in `dataset_configs` folder), and if it loads successfully it will draw the results on that video, otherwise it will draw results on a blank canvas. Note that `test_mode` will be set to `'one'` and `force_split` will be set to `draw_results` if `draw_results != 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--draw_videos`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls whether draw visualized results on video frames and save as images. Accept the name of one video clip. The codes will first try to load the video according to the path saved in the `plist` file, and if successful it will draw the visualization on the video, otherwise it will draw on a blank canvas. Note that `test_mode` will be set to `'one'` and `force_split` will be set to `draw_videos` if `draw_videos != 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--epochs`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Maximum training epochs. 
  The default value is `500`.
- `--force_anntype`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Assign the prediction type. It is now only used for silverballers models that are trained with annotation type `coordinate` but want to test on datasets with annotation type `boundingbox`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_clip`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test video clip (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_dataset`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test dataset (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_split`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test dataset (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--gpu`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Speed up training or test if you have at least one NVidia GPU. If you have no GPUs or want to run the code on your CPU, please set it to `-1`. NOTE: It only supports training or testing on one GPU. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--interval`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Time interval of each sampled trajectory point. 
  The default value is `0.4`.
- `--load` (short for `-l`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Folder to load model (to test). If set to `null`, the training manager will start training new models according to other given args. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--log_dir`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Folder to save training logs and model weights. Logs will save at `args.save_base_dir/current_model`. DO NOT change this arg manually. (You can still change the path by passing the `save_base_dir` arg.) 
  The default value is `Unavailable`.
- `--lr` (short for `-lr`): type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Learning rate. 
  The default value is `0.001`.
- `--model_name`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Customized model name. 
  The default value is `model`.
- `--model`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  The model type used to train or test. 
  The default value is `none`.
- `--obs_frames` (short for `-obs`): type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Observation frames for prediction. 
  The default value is `8`.
- `--pmove`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Index of the reference point when moving trajectories. 
  The default value is `-1`.
- `--pred_frames` (short for `-pred`): type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Prediction frames. 
  The default value is `12`.
- `--protate`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Reference degree when rotating trajectories. 
  The default value is `0.0`.
- `--pscale`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Index of the reference point when scaling trajectories. 
  The default value is `autoref`.
- `--restore_args`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to restore the reference args before training. It will not restore any args if `args.restore_args == 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--restore`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to restore the pre-trained weights before training. It will not restore any weights if `args.restore == 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--save_base_dir`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Base folder to save all running logs. 
  The default value is `./logs`.
- `--split` (short for `-s`): type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  The dataset split that used to train and evaluate. 
  The default value is `zara1`.
- `--start_test_percent`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Set when (at which epoch) to start validation during training. The range of this arg should be `0 <= x <= 1`. Validation may start at epoch `args.epochs * args.start_test_percent`. 
  The default value is `0.0`.
- `--step`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Frame interval for sampling training data. 
  The default value is `1`.
- `--test_mode`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Test settings. It can be `'one'`, `'all'`, or `'mix'`. When setting it to `one`, it will test the model on the `args.force_split` only; When setting it to `all`, it will test on each of the test datasets in `args.split`; When setting it to `mix`, it will test on all test datasets in `args.split` together. 
  The default value is `mix`.
- `--test_step`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Epoch interval to run validation during training. 
  The default value is `1`.
- `--update_saved_args`: type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Choose whether to update (overwrite) the saved arg files or not. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--use_extra_maps`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Controls if uses the calculated trajectory maps or the given trajectory maps. The training manager will load maps from `./dataset_npz/.../agent1_maps/trajMap.png` if set it to `0`, and load from `./dataset_npz/.../agent1_maps/trajMap_load.png` if set this argument to `1`. 
  The default value is `0`.

### Silverballers args

- `--Kc`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of style channels in `Agent` model. 
  The default value is `20`.
- `--T`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Type of transformations used when encoding or decoding trajectories. It could be: - `none`: no transformations - `fft`: fast Fourier transform - `fft2d`: 2D fast Fourier transform - `haar`: haar wavelet transform - `db2`: DB2 wavelet transform 
  The default value is `fft`.
- `--down_sampling_rate`: type=`float`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Down sampling rate to sample trajectories from all N = K*Kc trajectories. 
  The default value is `1.0`.
- `--feature_dim`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Feature dimensions that are used in most layers. 
  The default value is `128`.
- `--key_points`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  A list of key time steps to be predicted in the agent model. For example, `'0_6_11'`. 
  The default value is `0_6_11`.
- `--loada` (short for `-la`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to load the first-stage agent model. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--loadb` (short for `-lb`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to load the second-stage handler model. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--pred_interval` (short for `-pi`): type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Prediction interval in frames for recurrent prediction. It only works when `args.pred_frames` is larger than the `pred_frames` recorded in the agent model. 
  The default value is `-1`.
- `--preprocess`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Controls whether to run any pre-process before the model inference. It accepts a 3-bit-like string value (like `'111'`): - The first bit: `MOVE` trajectories to (0, 0); - The second bit: re-`SCALE` trajectories; - The third bit: `ROTATE` trajectories. 
  The default value is `111`.

### First-stage silverballers args

- `--depth`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Depth of the random noise vector. 
  The default value is `16`.
- `--deterministic`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Controls if predict trajectories in the deterministic way. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--loss`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Loss used to train agent models. Canbe `'avgkey'` or `'keyl2'`. 
  The default value is `keyl2`.

### Second-stage silverballers args

- `--points`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of keypoints accepted in the handler model. 
  The default value is `1`.
<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS LINE -->

Commit message:

add silverballers arg `pick_trajectories`

README.md, after:

<!--
 * @Author: Conghao Wong
 * @Date: 2022-07-07 21:43:30
 * @LastEditors: Conghao Wong
 * @LastEditTime: 2023-03-28 16:51:14
 * @Description: file content
 * @Github: https://github.com/cocoon2wong
 * Copyright 2022 Conghao Wong, All Rights Reserved.
-->

# Project-Jocker

## Branch `BB` Notes ⚠️

Please note that the contents in this branch are still under development and are not the final version.

![BB](./figures/bb.jpeg)

## Contact us

Conghao Wong ([@cocoon2wong](https://github.com/cocoon2wong)): conghaowong@icloud.com  
Beihao Xia ([@NorthOcean](https://github.com/NorthOcean)): xbh_hust@hust.edu.cn

---

## Args Used

Please specify your customized args when training or testing your model in the following way:

```bash
python main.py --ARG_KEY1 ARG_VALUE2 --ARG_KEY2 ARG_VALUE2 -SHORT_ARG_KEY3 ARG_VALUE3 ...
```

where `ARG_KEY` is the name of args, and `ARG_VALUE` is the corresponding value.
All args and their usages are listed below.

About the `argtype`:

- Args with argtype=`static` can not be changed once after training.
  When testing the model, the program will not parse these args to overwrite the saved values.
- Args with argtype=`dynamic` can be changed anytime.
  The program will try to first parse inputs from the terminal and then try to load from the saved JSON file.
- Args with argtype=`temporary` will not be saved into JSON files.
  The program will parse these args from the terminal at each time.

<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS LINE -->
### Basic args

- `--K_train`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of multiple generations when training. This arg only works for multiple-generation models. 
  The default value is `10`.
- `--K`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Number of multiple generations when testing. This arg only works for multiple-generation models. 
  The default value is `20`.
- `--anntype`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Model's predicted annotation type. Can be `'coordinate'` or `'boundingbox'`. 
  The default value is `coordinate`.
- `--batch_size` (short for `-bs`): type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Batch size when implementation. 
  The default value is `5000`.
- `--dataset`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Name of the video dataset to train or evaluate. For example, `'ETH-UCY'` or `'SDD'`. NOTE: DO NOT set this argument manually. 
  The default value is `Unavailable`.
- `--draw_distribution` (short for `-dd`): type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls if draw distributions of predictions instead of points. If `draw_distribution == 0`, it will draw results as normal coordinates; If `draw_distribution == 1`, it will draw all results in the distribution way, and points from different time steps will be drawn with different colors. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--draw_exclude_type` (short for `-det`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Draw visualized results of agents except user-assigned types. If the assigned types are `"Biker_Cart"` and the `draw_results` or `draw_videos` is not `"null"`, it will draw results of all types of agents except "Biker" and "Cart". It supports partial match and it is case-sensitive. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--draw_extra_outputs`: type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Choose whether to draw (put text) extra model outputs on the visualized images. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--draw_index`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Indexes of test agents to visualize. Numbers are split with `_`. For example, `'123_456_789'`. 
  The default value is `all`.
- `--draw_results` (short for `-dr`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls whether to draw visualized results on video frames. Accept the name of one video clip. The codes will first try to load the video file according to the path saved in the `plist` file (saved in `dataset_configs` folder), and if it loads successfully it will draw the results on that video, otherwise it will draw results on a blank canvas. Note that `test_mode` will be set to `'one'` and `force_split` will be set to `draw_results` if `draw_results != 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--draw_videos`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Controls whether draw visualized results on video frames and save as images. Accept the name of one video clip. The codes will first try to load the video according to the path saved in the `plist` file, and if successful it will draw the visualization on the video, otherwise it will draw on a blank canvas. Note that `test_mode` will be set to `'one'` and `force_split` will be set to `draw_videos` if `draw_videos != 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--epochs`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Maximum training epochs. 
  The default value is `500`.
- `--force_anntype`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Assign the prediction type. It is now only used for silverballers models that are trained with annotation type `coordinate` but want to test on datasets with annotation type `boundingbox`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_clip`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test video clip (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_dataset`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test dataset (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--force_split`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Force test dataset (ignore the train/test split). It only works when `test_mode` has been set to `one`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--gpu`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Speed up training or test if you have at least one NVidia GPU. If you have no GPUs or want to run the code on your CPU, please set it to `-1`. NOTE: It only supports training or testing on one GPU. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--interval`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Time interval of each sampled trajectory point. 
  The default value is `0.4`.
- `--load` (short for `-l`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Folder to load model (to test). If set to `null`, the training manager will start training new models according to other given args. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--log_dir`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Folder to save training logs and model weights. Logs will save at `args.save_base_dir/current_model`. DO NOT change this arg manually. (You can still change the path by passing the `save_base_dir` arg.) 
  The default value is `Unavailable`.
- `--lr` (short for `-lr`): type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Learning rate. 
  The default value is `0.001`.
- `--model_name`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Customized model name. 
  The default value is `model`.
- `--model`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  The model type used to train or test. 
  The default value is `none`.
- `--obs_frames` (short for `-obs`): type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Observation frames for prediction. 
  The default value is `8`.
- `--pmove`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Index of the reference point when moving trajectories. 
  The default value is `-1`.
- `--pred_frames` (short for `-pred`): type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Prediction frames. 
  The default value is `12`.
- `--protate`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Reference degree when rotating trajectories. 
  The default value is `0.0`.
- `--pscale`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Index of the reference point when scaling trajectories. 
  The default value is `autoref`.
- `--restore_args`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to restore the reference args before training. It will not restore any args if `args.restore_args == 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--restore`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to restore the pre-trained weights before training. It will not restore any weights if `args.restore == 'null'`. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--save_base_dir`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Base folder to save all running logs. 
  The default value is `./logs`.
- `--split` (short for `-s`): type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  The dataset split that used to train and evaluate. 
  The default value is `zara1`.
- `--start_test_percent`: type=`float`, argtype=`static`.
  Set when (at which epoch) to start validation during training. The range of this arg should be `0 <= x <= 1`. Validation may start at epoch `args.epochs * args.start_test_percent`. 
  The default value is `0.0`.
- `--step`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Frame interval for sampling training data. 
  The default value is `1`.
- `--test_mode`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Test settings. It can be `'one'`, `'all'`, or `'mix'`. When setting it to `one`, it will test the model on the `args.force_split` only; When setting it to `all`, it will test on each of the test datasets in `args.split`; When setting it to `mix`, it will test on all test datasets in `args.split` together. 
  The default value is `mix`.
- `--test_step`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Epoch interval to run validation during training. 
  The default value is `1`.
- `--update_saved_args`: type=`int`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Choose whether to update (overwrite) the saved arg files or not. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--use_extra_maps`: type=`int`, argtype=`dynamic`.
  Controls if uses the calculated trajectory maps or the given trajectory maps. The training manager will load maps from `./dataset_npz/.../agent1_maps/trajMap.png` if set it to `0`, and load from `./dataset_npz/.../agent1_maps/trajMap_load.png` if set this argument to `1`. 
  The default value is `0`.

### Silverballers args

- `--Kc`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of style channels in `Agent` model. 
  The default value is `20`.
- `--T`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Type of transformations used when encoding or decoding trajectories. It could be: - `none`: no transformations - `fft`: fast Fourier transform - `fft2d`: 2D fast Fourier transform - `haar`: haar wavelet transform - `db2`: DB2 wavelet transform 
  The default value is `fft`.
- `--down_sampling_rate`: type=`float`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Down sampling rate to sample trajectories from all N = K*Kc trajectories. 
  The default value is `1.0`.
- `--feature_dim`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Feature dimensions that are used in most layers. 
  The default value is `128`.
- `--key_points`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  A list of key time steps to be predicted in the agent model. For example, `'0_6_11'`. 
  The default value is `0_6_11`.
- `--loada` (short for `-la`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to load the first-stage agent model. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--loadb` (short for `-lb`): type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Path to load the second-stage handler model. 
  The default value is `null`.
- `--pick_trajectories` (short for `-p`): type=`float`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Calculates the sum of the context map values of the predicted trajectories and picks the top n (percentage) best predictions. This parameter is only valid when the model's input contains `MAPS` and `MAP_PARAS`. 
  The default value is `1.0`.
- `--preprocess`: type=`str`, argtype=`static`.
  Controls whether to run any pre-process before the model inference. It accepts a 3-bit-like string value (like `'111'`): - The first bit: `MOVE` trajectories to (0, 0); - The second bit: re-`SCALE` trajectories; - The third bit: `ROTATE` trajectories. 
  The default value is `111`.

### First-stage silverballers args

- `--depth`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Depth of the random noise vector. 
  The default value is `16`.
- `--deterministic`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  Controls if predict trajectories in the deterministic way. 
  The default value is `0`.
- `--loss`: type=`str`, argtype=`temporary`.
  Loss used to train agent models. Canbe `'avgkey'` or `'keyl2'`. 
  The default value is `keyl2`.

### Second-stage silverballers args

- `--points`: type=`int`, argtype=`static`.
  The number of keypoints accepted in the handler model. 
  The default value is `1`.
<!-- DO NOT CHANGE THIS LINE -->
